4) Terrorist Finance Tracking Program
	Report for Congress "Treasury's Terrorist Finance Program's Access to 
		Information Held by SWIFT"

Abbreviations:
- SWIFT: Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication
	SWIFT is an major hub for international communication among banks and other
	financial institutions
- E.O.: Executive Order
- IEEPA: International Emergency Eceonomic Powers Act
- U.S.:	United States
- U.N.: United Nations

Summary:
	This document describes how the Treasury was allowed to collect information
	held by SWIFT. 
	The document starts with showing why the authority was given and in short 
	states: 
		"President Bush issued E.O. 13224 on September 23, 	2001, pursuant to 
		the IEEPA, 50 U.S.C §§ 1701-1706. In order to use IEEPA the president 
		must declare a national emergency based on the existence of an unusual 
		or extraordinary thread to U.S. national security, foreign 	policy, or 
		economy having it source, in whole or substantial part, outside the 
		United States. This was given by the events of September 11, 2001."
	The authority given was restricted to named individuals and entities which
	were determined by the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury
	and with the Attorney General. 
	As the United States lacks of any general law of financial privacy, the 
	constitution provides no protection against goverment access to financial
	information turned over to third parties (United States vs. Miller, 425 U.S.
	435 1976). Although the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution requires a 
	search warrant for a law enforcement agent, it does not protect any data 
	when they are held by financial institutions nevertheless it generally 
	requires customer notice when federal authorities seek access to bank 
	information on individuals or partnerships of five or fewer individuals.
	Information gained under IEEPA which do not need notification of 
	individuals can be transfered to any other agency by just believing that 
	this may be of interest to them.
	Additionally there are other laws for:
		- Import/Export of financial instruments above $10'000 must be reported
			to the Treasury
		- The USA PATRIOT Act regulates an recordkeeping of money laundery and 
			allows to collect information about individuals from financial 
			instutions even if the institution is not domestic.
		- The Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism Convention 
			Implementation Act makes it a crime to collect of provide funds to
			support terrorist activites, regardless of wheter the offense was
			commited in the United States or the accused was a United States
			citizen.
		- The Treasury Secretary must issue regulations mandating the reporting
			of cross-border transmittals by certain financial institutions, and
			submit a report to Congress on the efforts to combat money 
			laundering and and terrorist financing.
			
	The U.S. goverment has gotten support from U.N. Security Council which did
	ask all states to collect information regarding the U.N. General 
	Assembly in 1999, which obligates the states party to take measures to 
	identifiy, discover, freeze or seize the moneys used or intended for use to
	finance terrorist attacks of an international character.
	On June 29, 2006, the House of Representative passed H.Res. 895, voicing 
	support for the Treasury Terrorist Finance Tracking Program as lawful.
	
Keywords:
- Terrorism
- "September 11, 2001"
- PATRIOT ACT

6) ZEHNTE SCHWEIZER BIG BROTHER AWARDS
	
Zusammenfassung:	
	Die Big Brother Awards zeichnen die grössten Datenschnüffler in den 
	Kategorien Staat, Business, Arbeitsplatz und Lebenswerk aus.

	Staat: "Dienst für die Überwachung des Post und Fernmeledeverkehrs"
		Das Bundesgesetz zur Überwach des Post- und Fernmeldeverkehrs 
		verpflichtet alle Telekommunikationsfirmen und Internetprovider der 
		Schweiz dazu, die Verbindungsdaten ihrer Kundschaft während sechs 
		Monaten zu speichern.
		
		Dem Dienst genügte dies nicht und will eine Echtzeit-Überwachung der
		kompletten Kommunikation des Breitband-Internetanschlusses. Diese 
		Verpflichtung soll bis Ende Juni 2010 durch den Dienst zertifiziert 
		werden. 
	
	Business: Swisscom
		Durch das Speichern der ADSL-Router-Konfiguration inklusive der 
		Passwörter. Dies Ermöglicht der Swisscom den internen Datenverkehr zu
		belauschen.
		
	Arbeitsplatz: Berufsbildungsschule Winterthur
		Durch die Aufforderung, dass Nachbarn die Schüler denunzieren sollen, 
		sofern diese Abfall auf den Boden werden oder heimlich auf dem 
		Schulgelände kiffen. 
		
	Lebenswerk: Deltavista, Küsnacht
		Kommerzielle Sammlung von privaten (Kunden-)Daten
		
Glossar:
- Echtzeit-Überwachung 
- Speichern


7) Crossing Borders with Laptops and PDAs
	In April 2007 the US court ruled that border agents can search electronic 
	devices, when entering the country. They also may copy all the content found
	and keep this for several days. The US is not alone at least the British
	do search laptops for pornography aswell.
	What kind of security measures could you do against it?
	Encryption won't work as the border agent may just ask for the password, 
	which you could refuse but you would yield in a search, being detained even
	longer, refuse you from entering the country or ruin your day otherwise.
	You will be hiding the data for it's safety. This can be combined with the 
	above. Most likely the customs agent will not find the hidden partition even
	if he pokes around in your filesystem and even if the copy all your data, 
	why should you care it was encrypted and he will most likely not be able to 
	decrypt it within a reasonable time.
	The biggest problem you could face with that approach is, that your computer
	did save the passphrase somewhere or you might have chosen a poor passphrase
	to avoid the first, you should turn off your computer and clear any caches 
	before (eg browser cache).
	
	In conclusion your best defense is to bring a new computer without any data,
	which is not practical therefore deleting everything you don't need on 
	your trip before going through customs. If you need data and do not want
	customs to see those, leave them on a server and download once you are 
	through or take your chance and put them on an encrypted usb-stick and hope
	that customs will not see that tiny thing. Remeber this tips apply to PDA's,
	phones, books, and all the other things you bring with you.
	
Keywords:
- Customs
- Encryption
- Strong Passphrase
- Safety
	
	
9) Digital Information Rights Need Tech-Savvy Courts
	Nowadays the data is no longer under our control, our mails are stored on 
	some companys storage (eg google, yahoo). The old answering machine was 
	replaced by the an answering computer from the phone company. Until the 
	electronical age data was under you control, if someone wanted to know what
	list of books you bought he used to need to break into your appartment.
	
	Now we have to trust that our privacy is as important to the companies we 
	have chosen as it is to us and that is the problem, companies try to be as 
	secure as not to be harmed by bad PR when a security breach occurs. In the 
	US the police can use your private data against you if found by searching 
	some company. Therefore the courts need to learn that the virtual privacy
	must be a lot stricter then now.
	
Keywords:
- virtual privacy
- physical privacy


Pro:
- Privacy is not protected if data is owned by a third party (US 4,9)
- The customs get more and more power to search you (US,UK 7)
- Global companies may face problems to keep the security to the customers(US 4)
- Keys/Passwords may be stored centraly (CH 6)
- Realtime surveillance (CH 6)
- Automated process do search for patterns in all data they can gather (US 4)

Cons:
- Not found any in my documents
